---
class: post-blog post-detail
type: Blog
$title: "The Official AMP Plugin for WordPress"
id: the-official-amp-plugin-for-wordpress
author: Alberto Medina
role:  AMP and WordPress Developer Advocate, Google
origin: "https://amphtml.wordpress.com/2018/12/07/the-official-amp-plugin-for-wordpress/amp/"
excerpt: "Posted by Alberto Medina, AMP and WordPress Developer Advocate, Google Enabling a first-class AMP experience on WordPress is one of the ways the AMP Project aims to bring a user-first experience to websites and content on the web. There has been a lot of work over the last year to improve the quality of the [&#8230;]"
avatar: https://1.gravatar.com/avatar/42ecb1ea497ca9d0ffe1e406cae70e27?s=96&d=identicon&r=G
date_data: 2018-12-07T08:10:29-06:00
$date: December 7, 2018
$parent: /content/latest/list-blog.html
$path: /latest/blog/{base}/
$localization:
  path: /{locale}/latest/blog/{base}/
components:
  - social-share
inlineCSS: false
---

<div class="amp-wp-article-content">

		<figure class="wp-block-image"><amp-img src="https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/SPYnnU56d4Yx4OsBND5RWghFzoq_8Wqhh0tqnpcKIZsgWsGu-SYdwrnrxDAYWPl5qgGyklLO_LdoD-7EMrbvj4YobVLEvZzCe1uv1SKYsPFfbOUH8it1KqItoPjATNNjI3I0GlHZ" alt="" width="1544" height="500" sizes="(min-width: 660px) 660px, 100vw" class="amp-wp-enforced-sizes"></amp-img></figure><p><em>Posted by Alberto Medina, AMP and WordPress Developer Advocate, Google</em><br/></p><p>Enabling a first-class AMP experience on WordPress is one of the ways the AMP Project aims to bring a user-first experience to websites and content on the web. There has been a lot of work over the last year to improve the quality of the official AMP plugin and <strong>today we are releasing version 1.0-stable of <a href="https://amp-wp.org/">the Official AMP Plugin for WordPress</a></strong>.<br/></p><p>Version 1.0 of the plugin integrates AMP content creation seamlessly with standard WordPress content creation workflows across both classic editing, or Gutenberg-based editing. In particular, a native AMP experience is supported in this release, allowing for WordPress sites to be built entirely with AMP, without a duplicate AMP version of a page in ‘paired mode’. <br/></p><p>Features and capabilities of the 1.0 release include:<br/></p><ul><li><strong>Content sanitizers</strong>: to help substituting HTML tags for their corresponding AMP components ones, implement optimizations, and feed validation information to the plugin compatibility’s tool (see below)</li></ul><ul><li><strong>Compatibility tool</strong>: to assist the development of AMP experiences by enabling AMP debugging based on exposing extensive and detailed information about validation errors that may exist, the markup/scripts causing them, and the specific components on site (e.g theme, plugin, core) bearing the responsibility of that page content.</li><li><strong>CSS Tree Shaking</strong>: to assist in the process of putting the CSS-house in order in cases where  existing CSS rule exceed the maximum limited permitted on single AMP pages.</li><li><strong>Core theme support</strong>: enabling full AMP validity for four default themes (i.e.  2015, 2016, 2017,<strong> 2019</strong>).</li><li><strong>Gutenberg integration</strong>: enabling AMP content creation fully integrated with Gutenberg, the new and powerful editing experience in WordPress.</li><li><strong>Native AMP experiences support</strong>: enabling full-site AMP experiences without sacrificing by one-bit the flexibility of the platform, or the fidelity of content.</li><li><strong>A myriad of code, performance, and developer experience improvements: </strong>from customization flexibility, to better UI flows, internationalization, accessibility, etc. Check the full list in <a href="https://make.xwp.co/2018/11/22/amp-plugin-release-v1-0-rc3/">the release post</a>.</li><li><strong>Opti-in</strong>/<strong>Opt-out support</strong>:  all functionality is available in an opt-in manner. And users that do opt-in have the option of enabling AMP only on specific sections of their site, and also disable AMP at a granular level (e.g. on a single post)</li><li><strong>Compatibility enforcement</strong>: to ensure that a site stays AMP compatible and that only AMP-valid content is ever served</li></ul><p>We invite you to try the new release by:<br/></p><ol><li>Upload the plugin to the /wp-content/plugins/ directory in your site</li><li>Activate the plugin through the ‘Plugins’ menu in WordPress</li><li>If you currently use older versions of the plugin in Classic mode, it is strongly encouraged to migrate to Paired or Native mode</li><li>Learn more details about the features above in <a href="https://amp-wp.org">the Plugin site</a></li></ol><h2><strong>The Journey Ahead</strong></h2><p>The official AMP plugin for WordPress provides essential tools and functionality for AMP content creation, the WordPress way. It is important to note that the plugin is not a completely turn-key solution to “AMPlify your site”, but instead functions as a key enabling technology for a fully AMP compatible WordPress ecosystem.<br/></p><p>The journey ahead is one along the road of ecosystem adoption. As we advance on this road, more plugins and themes will be available with full AMP-compatibility provided out-of-the-box, and site owners will easily find AMP-compatible components to assemble full sites when selecting plugins from WordPress.org plugins/themes page.<br/></p><p>In the future, we expect there to be turn-key solutions site owners can leverage to easily provide awesome AMP experiences regardless of their level of savviness. Our ultimate aim is for high-quality AMP content in WordPress-powered sites to be ubiquitous. <br/></p><p>Join us as we continue on this journey and please <a href="https://wordpress.org/support/plugin/amp">share your feedback</a> on the latest release. We’re enthusiastic about the potential the plugin has to improve the user experience on the web and look forward to what is ahead.<br/></p><p></p>	</div>

	

</div>

