---
class: post-blog post-detail
type: Blog
$title: "The latest from AMP Analytics providers"
id: ads-the-latest-from-amp-analytics-providers
author: Jeff Jose
role:  Product Manager, AMP, at Google
origin: "https://amphtml.wordpress.com/2018/10/25/the-latest-from-amp-analytics-providers/amp/"
excerpt: "As AMP turns three, we can&#8217;t help but look back with nostalgia on how far along we’ve come along in our mission &#8211; Build the best open web technology that lets publishers create fast and secure pages without compromising on user-experience. That is why we built the analytics infrastructure in AMP that allows for “collect [&#8230;]"
avatar: https://1.gravatar.com/avatar/42ecb1ea497ca9d0ffe1e406cae70e27?s=96&d=identicon&r=G
date_data: 2018-10-25T14:06:47-07:00
$date: October 25, 2018
$parent: /content/latest/list-blog.html
$path: /latest/blog/{base}/
$localization:
  path: /{locale}/latest/blog/{base}/
components:
  - social-share
inlineCSS: .amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60{font-weight:400;}
---

<div class="amp-wp-article-content">

		<p><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">As AMP turns three, we can’t help but look back with nostalgia on how far along we’ve come along in our mission – Build the best open web technology that lets publishers create fast and secure pages without compromising on user-experience. That is why we built the analytics infrastructure in AMP that allows for “</span><i><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">collect once, notify many”</span></i><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60"> architecture for metrics on the page. This allows for AMP Analytics to be fast and accurate while using fewer resources on mobile devices.</span></p><p><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">AMP Analytics’ interface allows third-party analytics partners to easily integrate with the service. Websites building with AMP can choose from over 55 </span><a href="https://www.ampproject.org/support/faqs/supported-platforms"><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">analytics providers</span></a><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60"> today to get accurate metrics of the page. </span></p><p><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">We’re continuing to invest in the ecosystem, and wanted to give a shoutout to some of the amazing providers who also continue to invest in AMP.   Over the coming few months, you’ll see deeper integrations from the following partners with AMP.</span></p><hr/><p><b>Adobe Analytics<br/></b><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">AMP continues to be adopted by Adobe customers, who love the speed that AMP provides and the mobile first approach. Adobe has supported AMP from the beginning with two different analytics templates that customers can use based on their needs. In 2019, Adobe would like to build out more robust ID linking capabilities as well as enhance the current templates to support more events out of the box to make the implementation even easier. For customers interested in implementing AMP they can reference </span><a href="https://marketing.adobe.com/resources/help/en_US/sc/implement/accelerated-mobile-pages.html"><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">implementation guide</span></a><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">.</span></p><p><b>Bizible<br/></b><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">Bizible is currently in the process of building out their AMP integration.  By next year, native event and pageview tracking will be available on AMP-enabled content.  Additionally, AMP pageviews will be considered as touchpoints for attribution across the entire customer journey.</span></p><p><b>Chartbeat<br/></b><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">Chartbeat was one of the inaugural analytics partners for AMP and continues to provide active support and insight to publishers around AMP traffic. Their AMP integration, as well as their trends and best practices reports, illuminates a major source of traffic for publishers and enables them to understand how engagement compares across platforms.  Chartbeat will continue to monitor AMP trends as well as broader platform shifts so they can shed light on the implications that major changes hold for publishers. For more questions about AMP capabilities or initiatives, please reach out at </span><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">feedback@chartbeat.com</span><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">.</span></p><p><b>Google<br/></b><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">Many websites use Google Analytics to better understand how well their site is meeting the needs of their users, and some sites also benefit from being able to measure campaign performance in Google Ads and Search Ads 360.  </span><a href="https://support.google.com/tagmanager/answer/6103696"><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">Google Tag Manager</span></a><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60"> offers a solution that allows websites to instrument AMP pages with analytics tags once and make subsequent updates without touching code. For those who are not using Google Tag Manager, the recently released </span><a href="https://developers.google.com/gtagjs/devguide/amp"><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">global site tag for AMP</span></a><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60"> provides the benefit of having a single implementation for Analytics, Google Ads, and Search Ads 360.</span></p><p><b>New Relic<br/></b><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">The New Relic Browser allows users to capture and visualize the performance of their AMP pages against their standard webpages. AMP data is captured and visualized through New Relic Insights, New Relic’s dashboard solution, to create detailed and customizable views into AMP page performance.</span></p><p><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">New Relic has plans to include AMP performance metrics into the New Relic Browser’s product in the first half of 2019. This will provide Browser customers with a clear way to compare AMP to non AMP page performance using New Relic Browser to measure if their investment in AMP is paying through page performance.  For more information, please get in touch </span><a href="https://newrelic.com/contact-sales"><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">here</span></a><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">.</span></p><p><b>Nielsen<br/></b><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">Nielsen supports measurement of static/text content on AMP as part of Digital Content Ratings, which measures digital content consumption across platforms, in every market globally where the product is available. This enables publishers to get a holistic view of their audience across the variety of distribution channels they may use, as well as the unique reach they achieve on AMP. Nielsen currently supports DCR measurement on various online video platforms and plans to extend support for native amp-video in 2019. This would allow publishers to see audience composition on AMP by content type. For further information on Nielsen’s measurement capabilities, please click </span><a href="https://www.nielsen.com/us/en/solutions/capabilities/total-audience.html"><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">here</span></a><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">.</span></p><p><b>Optimizely<br/></b><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">Many publishers today use Optimizely to A/B test article headlines, ad viewability, and subscription flows.  Optimizely is working with the AMP Project on a solution to support these same powerful experiments in AMP. This solution will allow customers to use Optimizely’s visual editor to build A/B tests and then see them take effect on AMP pages, along with measuring real-time experiment metrics through Optimizely’s Stats Engine.</span></p><p><b>Parsely<br/></b><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">Parse.ly fully supports measuring audiences on AMP, including the ability to support engaged time. With Parse.ly, content creators are able to see a single, unified view of their audience and content across multiple channels like AMP, mobile apps and website.  Soon, Parse.ly will support better AMP breakdowns in their API, including newer standards like AMP Stories. They are committed to support audience measurement on AMP as the standard evolves.</span><b>  </b><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">Please contact </span><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">support@parsely.com</span><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60"> if you have any questions.</span></p><p><b>Tealium<br/></b><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">Tealium supports AMP in multiple ways.  One is that Tealium’s utag.js running JavaScript in an AMP iframe.  A second implementation is to host JSON on Tealium’s CDN for dynamically creating tracking beacons or defining custom event listeners.  The third is the “Tealium Collect” AMP Analytics component (current waiting merge in Github) that sends data to Tealium’s EventStream for server-side delivery of your events.</span></p><p><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">Tealium is currently working on Tealium Collect AMP Analytics component. Tealium’s Hosted Data Layer (HDL) service recently added JSON support which means that you can leverage this for definition and delivery of AMP JSON.  For questions, please go to Tealium’s Learning Community </span><a href="https://community.tealiumiq.com/"><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">here</span></a><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">.</span></p><hr/><p><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">As you can see from these updates, the AMP Analytics format and the number of providers supporting it continue to grow.  As updates to the format become available and new providers come online, we will update the community.</span></p><p><i><span class="amp-wp-inline-329fdb7771c10d07df9eb73273c95a60">Posted by Jeff Jose, Product Manager, AMP, at Google</span></i></p>	</div>

	

</div>

